.TH SAGE 1 "August 2008"
.SH NAME
sage \- Software for Algebra and Geometry Experimentation
.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
\fBsage\fR [options] \- Run the Sage command-line interface.
.PP
\fBsage -notebook\fR [options] \- Run the Sage web interface server.
.PP
\fBsage file.[sage|py|spyx]\fR [options] \- Run given file as sage code.
.PP
\fBsage \-c\fR \fBstring\fR \- Run given string as sage code.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Invokes the sage interpreter.  Sage is a mathematical software program
with support for a wide range of mathematics, including algebra,
calculus, elementary to very advanced number theory, cryptography,
numerical computation, commutative algebra, group theory,
combinatorics, graph theory, and exact linear algebra.

Sage integrates several dozen mathematical software packages, making
it possible to combine the best algorithms from several different
packages together in a single Sage program.

Running \fBsage\fR with no arguments starts the interactive
read-eval-print loop for Sage.  Sage also has a web-based notebook
interface, and can be run non-interactively with either a file or its
command-line arguments as the source of commands.
.SH OPTIONS
This man page contains a short summary of the most commonly used
options supported by Sage.  Additional options are displayed by
\fBsage \-advanced\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-version\fR
Print the SAGE version.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Don't print the Sage banner.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fBstring\fR
Invoke sage with \fBstring\fR as the input program.
.TP
\fB\-notebook\fR [options]
Start the SAGE notebook (options are the same as to the notebook command in SAGE).
.TP
\fB\-t\fR <files|dir> [options]
Test examples in .py, .pyx, .sage or .tex files (additional options to
\fBsage \-t\fR such as \fB\-\-verbose\fR and \fB\-\-gdb\fR are documented in \fBsage \-advanced\fR).
.TP
\fB\-min\fR
Do not populate global namespace (must be first option).
.TP
\fB\-advanced\fR
List all options supported by sage.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB~/.sage\fR
Contains various caches and configuration data for sage.
.TP
\fB~/.sage/ipython\fR
Ipython configuration file for Sage.  This can be used to change the
look of the Sage shell.
.TP
\fB~/.sage/matplotlibrc\fR
matplotlib configuration file for Sage.
.TP
\fB~/.sage/gap\fR
Cached GAP workspace for Sage.
.TP
\fB~/.sage/sage_notebook\fR
Store for Sage notebook worksheets.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fBsage\fR respects the following environment variables.
.TP
\fBSAGE_TESTDIR\fR
Directory used for logging of test-related files.  Defaults to ~/.sage/tests.
.SH SEE ALSO
The full documentation for Sage, including an extensive tutorial,
reference manual, programming guide, and constructions cookbook is
installed at
<file:///usr/share/doc/sagemath/doc-main/html/index.html>.
.TP
ipython(1), python(1), cython(1)
